---
layout: post
title:  "MKW-SP 0.1.9 Released"
date:   2022-08-13 18:30:00 +0200
author: stebler
---

Version 0.1.9 of Mario Kart Wii - Service Pack has been released. It's a minor release containing various bugfixes and improvements listed below. It can be installed from the in-game updater or downloaded from [here](https://github.com/stblr/mkw-sp/releases/download/v0.1.9/mkw-sp-v0.1.9.zip).

## Features

- A performance overlay showing CPU, GPU and memory usage has been added. You can see it in action in [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KmO7rwbbsbg).
- On Dolphin 5.0-17155 and later, MKW-SP can now configure a custom Discord status. [riidefi, IPG]
- The GCN rumble setting has been added back. [stebler]
- A tag count setting has been added. Any value between 0 and 12 can be selected. [stebler]

## Improvements

- The sound archive subfile replacement (SASR) has been completely rewritten and now works per sound id rather than per file id (the documentation can be found [here](/docs/my-stuff)). [stebler]
- Thanks to the above change and a scheduling regression being fixed, loading times have been drastically reduced. [stebler]
- If no storage device is found, MKW-SP will try again for 30 seconds. At that point, it will try to return to the loader (Wii Menu/HBC/close the window on Dolphin). [stebler, Palapeli, Star]
- The "SPEED" HUD label has been translated to German. [Syara]
- Dutch base game translations have been updated. [Krummers]
- Setting names can now have a line break if they are too long. The box size has also been increased. [stebler]

## Bugfixes

- The "Race" and "Watch" buttons under the ghost list are now correctly positioned in 16:9. [stebler]
- The result screen music now plays at the normal speed even when final lap dynamic speedup is enabled. [stebler]
- An off-by-one error in the exception handler has been fixed. [Star]
