---
layout: post
title:  "MKW-SP 0.1.10 Released"
date:   2023-05-21 23:30:00 +0200
author: stebler
---

Version 0.1.10 of Mario Kart Wii - Service Pack has been released. It's a minor release containing various bugfixes and improvements listed below. It can be installed from the in-game updater or downloaded from [here](https://github.com/stblr/mkw-sp/releases/download/v0.1.10/mkw-sp-v0.1.10.zip).


## Tools

- The collision model (KCL) can now be displayed as an overlay or in place of the regular course model. [riidefi]
- Checkpoints can now be displayed as an overlay. [riidefi]
- A thumbnail generator has been implemented. [stebler]

## Team mode and battle improvements

- VS races and battles can now be played with up to 6 teams. [stebler, Gnome!, Palapeli]
- The team size can also be randomized. [Unnamed]
- Friendly fire has been added. [stebler]
- FFA is now available in battle. [stebler]
- A vivid and a colorblind palette can be chosen from for team colors. [stebler]
- In battle mode, the scores are now displayed on the minimap. [stebler]
- In single player, the HUD timer can now be configured to use the team color. [stebler]

## Time trials

- Mirror mode is now available in time trials. [Henry]
- The time diff feature uses the right ghost again. [stebler]

## UI

- The course/stage selection UI has been redesigned. Inspiration was taken from [this concept](https://twitter.com/dora97_/status/1548681610454650882) by dora. This change was made with course extension in mind. [stebler, vabold]
- In split-screen, multiple players can now select the same character. [Palapeli]
- Support for [Extended Regions](https://wiki.tockdom.com/wiki/Extended\_Regions) has been added. [Zach]
- Support for various speedometer metrics has been added. [Gaberboo, Gnome!, stebler]
- The setting to disable the minimap has been added. [Henry]
- The number of tags now defaults to 3. [MikeIsAStar]
- A setting for the tag render distance ("battle glitch") has been added. [MikeIsAStar]
- Explanation texts can now have a second line. [Wingcapman]
- D-pad input is no longer flipped in mirror mode. [Gnome!]
- The color of the OK text when selecting characters in multiplayer has been fixed. [stebler]
- A missing button in the battle pause menu has been added. [stebler]

## Sound

- The master volume and music volume can now be configured. [stebler]
- A lag spike issue when loading a BRSTM has been fixed. [stebler]
- An issue where the final lap jingle would not play if the speedup was disabled has been fixed. [stebler]

## Video

- Options to force 60 or 30 fps have been added. [Gnome!]
- An issue where the game would run at 50 fps rather than 60 has been fixed. [stebler]
- The console is now displayed correctly in interlaced modes. [MikeIsAStar]

## License system

- Character, vehicle and course selections are now saved. [MikeIsAStar, stebler]
- The license unlocker no longer breaks if the Mii of a license has been deleted. [stebler, vabold]

## Security

- Memory protection has been improved. [MikeIsAStar, Gaberboo]
- Memory allocation failure is now a fatal error. [MikeIsAStar]
- The performance of some mitigations has been improved. [MikeIsAStar]
- The vulnerability used by the BlueBomb exploit has been patched. [MikeIsAStar]
- A stack overflow check has been implemented. [MikeIsAStar]
- Additional file format checks have been added. [MikeIsAStar]
- Certain functions are now erased. [MikeIsAStar]

## Misc

- A setting to use ZL (CC/CCP) or Y (GCN) to trick and wheelie, dubbed "simplified controls", has been added. [stebler]
- Several base game settings have been restored. [Zach, Gnome!, stebler]
- Discord Rich Presence statuses are now more precise. [vabold, Gaberboo]
- Explanations about disc changes on Dolphin have been added. [Lami, thepikachugamer]
- Mega thunderclouds are now available as an option. [Hibyehello, Zach]
- Multiple log files can now be kept in the `logs` folder. By default, they are deleted after one week, but this can be configured. [MikeIsAStar]
- Crash handlers have been improved again. [MikeIsAStar, vabold, riidefi]
- Certain standard library functions now use a more optimized version. [MikeIsAStar]
- The author list in the HBC XML has been changed to a generic "The MKW-SP Developers". This requires a manual update. [The MKW-SP Developers]
